♪ Every case in the forest ♪
♪ Is challenging and difficult ♪
♪ Detective Toby and Teri ♪
♪ Will find the answer ♪
♪ We're the best case solvers ♪
♪ Detective Toby and Teri ♪
♪ We are the best partners ♪
LITTLE DETECTIVES
TOBY & TERI
What do you see?
[Toby] Just a lizard
doin' lizard stuff.
Good detective work, Toby.
May I have a look?
[grunts]
[Millie humming a tune]
[Rumy panting]
Rumy's gonna run into Millie!
[gasps]
Come on! We gotta stop him!
Rumy, look out!
Whah?
-[gasps]
-[Rumy yelps]
Are you guys okay?
Sure. Just surprised.
How did you know
Rumy was gonna run into me?
-We're detectives.
-Toby got binoculars.
[laughs]
So who are the flowers for,
Rumy?
[laughs]
I have a brand-new friend.
Wanna meet him?
Sure. We'd love to.
You're really going to like him.
He's really nice,
and he's really funny, and...
He's a rock.
Yup. His name's Rocco.
[Rocco]
Nice to meet you guys.
[all gasp]
What's up? Never seen
a talking rock before?
No.
[Rocco] Now you have.
Rumy, I'm hungry.
Here are the flowers you wanted.
Thanks.
Now how about some acorns?
You said you had
a squirrel friend, right?
Sure, but I don't know
if he's got acorns.
He does. They're under a rock
by the cedar tree.
Oh, and go to the meadow
and grab me some grass.
Oh, sure.
Hmm. How can a rock be talking?
I have no idea.
This rock isn't just talking.
He's ordering Rumy around.
He's not very nice at all.
We've got to do something.
Sounds like we've got a case.
Will you excuse us?
To the treehouse!
[camera clicks]
Rocks aren't supposed to talk.
And this one isn't just talking.
He's ordering Rumy around.
And he's our friend.
There's a lot at stake.
There always is, little brother.
There always is.
Let's do this.
♪ Looking for clues ♪
♪ Check the scene ♪
♪ Any cases ♪
♪ Little detectives ♪
♪ Can solve it ♪
[together]
Let's ace this case!
You take notes,
and I'll ask questions.
Good plan.
[Rocco]
Hi, Toby. Hi, Teri.
Hi, Rocco.
Where are Rumy's wildflowers?
Gone. I ate 'em.
Rocco the rock
ate the wildflowers.
So how long have you and Rumy
been friends?
Not long.
If you're looking for him,
he ran to the meadow
to get me some grass.
-Isn't that grass right there?
-Shh.
I like the barley in the meadow.
I eat the seeds.
What are you doing?!
[Millie]
Come out of there!
-Huh?
-[Rocco] Stop it.
[laughing]
I'm ticklish. Stop.
Uh...
Rock is ticklish.
[Rumy panting]
Rocco, I brought your barley.
[Rocco]
Thanks. Lay it out to dry.
Okay.
-Got your binoculars?
-Yup.
Good. Come on.
Hmm. Hmm?
Hmm.
Hi, guys! What you doing?
Shh. We're keeping an eye
on Rumy's new friend Rocco.
No way! Is this a stakeout? Wow!
Shh.
[softer] I mean, no way.
Is this a stakeout? Wow.
[panting]
Hey, guys!
Hi, Bean.
What have you got there?
Acorns. Rocco asked Rumy and me
to get them
from my secret spot.
Rumy knows
where you hide acorns?
Huh?
No, Rocco did.
What's everybody doing?
Toby and Teri
are watching Rocco.
[whispers]
It's a stakeout.
Eh? You're spying on Rocco?
He's my friend. That's not nice.
You're right, Rumy.
We're sorry.
I think
you owe Rocco an apology.
But it's just a rock.
No, he's Rumy's friend.
We shouldn't judge.
Rocco, my friends have
something to say to you.
What about me?
-I wanna meet Rocco!
-[Rocco] Hawk!
Aah! Go away!
It's okay, Rocco.
That's our friend Jay.
He's not a hawk.
Okay, okay. If you're sure.
-Hmm?
-You're not gonna eat me?
-No.
That's a clue
if I ever heard one.
Time to follow the facts
-and see where they lead.
-Mm-hmm.
Rocco eats wildflowers
and barley and acorns.
But how did he know
there was barley in the meadow?
He's a rock.
And a rock can't move or eat.
Whatever he is,
he's afraid of hawks.
So the real Rocco is little,
and he eats seeds and grasses
and doesn't like hawks.
It sure sounds like Rocco...
[together]
Is a mouse!
Is there a mouse that can make
his voice come out of a rock?
There is. It's called a pika.
They live near rocks and use
their voice to make you think
-they're somewhere they're not.
-[peeping]
Which must be handy if you're
trying to hide from hawks.
Or to trick someone
into gathering
the food you'll need for winter.
So this whole time,
he's been lying to Rumy.
Let's go find this "Rocco."
-Aww.
-[laughing]
Hey, Rocco. I want to bring you
a bunch of wildflowers.
Which do you like better,
red ones or blue?
[Teri]
They both look super yummy,
and I can get
lots and lots of them.
You tell me which you want.
[Rocco] Uh, can you
raise them up a tiny bit?
[gasps]
Uh, I think they both look good.
Gotcha, Rocco.
Hello, Rocco.
Ah, hi, Toby.
[gasps]
I-I mean, I'm not Rocco.
Rocco's way over there,
a-and I'm over here.
We know your trick.
You talk here,
and we hear it over there.
-Eh?
-Huh?
Fine. You got me. I'm Rocco.
Wait. You're Rocco?
You're a-- a mouse?
Actually a pika. He's been
hiding over here the whole time.
He made it sound like his voice
was coming from the rock.
It's a trick we use
so hungry birds can't find us.
And to trick Rumy into
finding you food for the winter.
It was a joke.
Who was I really hurting?
Me, when you lied.
I thought you were my friend.
[crying]
[Rocco groans]
Huh?
Rumy, wait! I'm sorry!
Rumy, I'm sorry!
I didn't mean to hurt you!
Rumy, where'd you go?!
Whoa!
[screams]
-[Rocco gasping]
-Rocco!
I'm so sorry, Rumy.
It started as a joke,
but when you believed me,
I figured
I'd just keep on doing it.
I'm so sorry.
Never mind that now.
Grab my hand!
Rumy, be careful!
No. I got you.
[gasps] Uh-oh!
[Millie]
And we've got you.
Thanks, guys.
[all grunting]
You saved me. Thank you.
[laughs]
That's what friends are for.
Are we still friends?
Yeah, but friends
don't lie to each other, okay?
Okay. Let's do something
you wanna do.
I can help you look for snacks
or-- or flowers or anything.
[laughs]
Sure.
Say, "Seeds"!
-Seeds!
[camera clicks]
We knew rocks
couldn't really talk.
By listening
to what that rock said,
we were able to follow
the facts, solve this mystery.
And who knows? Maybe Rocco will
turn out to be a good friend.
Time to close this case.
♪ Finding clues ♪
♪ We solve the case ♪
♪ Follow the facts ♪
♪ The case is now solved ♪
♪ We are detective Toby and Teri ♪
[together]
The Case of the Talking Rock
is officially closed.
[sniffs, sighs]
It smells so good
after it rains.
[sighs]
I agree.
Hi, guys.
I've got the coolest thing
to show you. Come on!
There it is. Look.
-Wow.
-Wow!
[Millie laughs]
You'll always see a rainbow
from the top of Rainbow Hill.
According to my weather station,
we had almost an inch of rain.
That's a lot of rain.
And that's a lot of rainbow.
Wait. Where are Rumy and Bean?
They were right behind us.
[both panting]
This way.
This is the back
of Rainbow Hill.
It's a shortcut.
It's too steep.
I'm not a good climber.
You're a great climber, Rumy,
and I'll help you.
Uh, no, I'll go around.
It's longer, but I'll run.
Ha ha! I'm a good runner.
[Teri]
There you are.
Hi, Bean.
Wow! The rainbow
is so beautiful.
We should take a picture.
Great idea!
Smile!
[camera clicks]
Wait. Where's Rumy?
[Rumy panting]
Hi. I'm here.
[gasps] I made it.
Rumy, quick! Look!
It was right there.
Aww. I missed it.
[groans]
Why didn't you come
up the back side with Bean?
It's too hard.
I'm not a good climber.
Don't worry.
I'll make you a rainbow
all your own
you can visit every day.
Really?
I promise.
[laughs]
You're the best!
♪ I'm gonna get a rainbow ♪
♪ My very own big rainbow ♪
-Um...
-[Rumy continues singing]
do you guys know
how to make a rainbow?
Don't worry, Bean.
We'll figure out
how to make one.
Sounds like we've got a case.
Will you excuse us?
To the treehouse!
[camera clicks]
[Rumy and Bean laugh]
So how do we make a rainbow?
That's what we've
gotta find out.
[Teri]
Bean made Rumy a promise.
We're going to help keep it.
There's a lot at stake.
There always is, little brother.
There always is.
Let's do this.
♪ Looking for clues ♪
♪ Check the scene ♪
♪ Any cases ♪
♪ Little detectives ♪
♪ Can solve it ♪
[together]
Let's ace this case!
How do we make a rainbow?
You see any clues we can use?
They're probably covered
with wet leaves.
They're everywhere.
[gasps]
There's even one
on your magnifying glass.
There is?
Oh.
Oh! Teri, look.
A rainbow. I see a rainbow.
Don't move.
Get ready.
One...
two...
three.
[all gasp]
[Toby]
It's gone.
[Jay]
Where'd it go?
[gasps]
I see it. Over there!
Slowly.
Grab it.
[groans]
It's gone again.
Hmm.
No, I see it. It's over there.
[Jay]
There it is.
I've got it!
Where is it?
Hey, guys!
There it is! It's over there!
Where'd it go?
Wait.
Toby's making the rainbow,
or the sun is when it shines
through his magnifying glass.
You're right. Look.
[Bean laughs]
The leaf left
a little bit of lens exposed,
and the sunlight's
shining through it.
What makes rainbows
when there's no Toby?
We're going to have
to follow the facts...
back to Rainbow Hill.
Maybe there's something up here
we could use to make a rainbow.
How 'bout this?
I bet when the sun
shines through the rainwater,
it works just like
my magnifying glass.
Of course. Rainwater.
Let's see. If we line up
the water with the sun...
Look!
[laughs]
It's kinda small.
It's small for a rainbow,
but it's a really big clue.
[Teri] Raindrops plus sunlight
equals rainbows.
So do I need to have rain
to make Rumy a rainbow?
No. You just need sunlight
and drops of water
floating in the air.
Isn't that rain?
No. It could be a spray
or mist or...
A waterfall!
Of course! Come on!
[Bean] Wow!
Look at all that mist.
And the sun's
right in front of us,
but where's the rainbow?
According to the WhyTab,
you see a rainbow,
because the sun is bouncing
off the little drops of water.
When we're on Rainbow Hill,
the sun's always behind us.
[Teri]
You're right.
We need to be over there
so the sun is behind us.
Come on!
[Bean]
It's perfect.
You guys are amazing.
Thanks,
but we just used the clues.
And followed the facts,
and this is where they led.
Let's go find Rumy.
Jay, mind staying here
and keeping an eye
on our rainbow?
You got it.
I'm watching you.
Whoo-hoo!
[laughs]
Yeah!
Oh, no!
The sun's setting.
They better hurry up.
Oh, no! What happened?
It was just here!
I'm supposed to watch
the rainbow, but it's just gone!
Rainbow, come back!
Come on, Rumy.
You won't believe it.
Toby and Teri
found you a rainbow.
Ah...
[all gasp]
[Rumy]
I don't see it.
[Bean]
It was right there!
Then I missed it again.
[Jay]
No, you didn't!
It's up here!
[Teri]
Of course.
The rainbow needs the sun,
and the sun is moving.
Not just moving.
It's going down!
Then we gotta hurry!
I think maybe
that's too steep for Rumy.
Maybe we'll just stay here?
-You can tell us about it.
-No!
You worked too hard
to find me this rainbow.
I'm not going to miss it.
Steep or not,
it's time to climb, Bean.
Time to climb!
[laughs]
We made it!
Great job, Rumy. You did it!
[laughing]
Thanks, Bean.
Look at the rainbow!
Wow. It's so beautiful.
[all cheering]
Oh, it's better than I
ever could have imagined.
It's a double rainbow.
Ha! That's 'cause one's for me,
and the other one's
for you, Bean.
Aw, thanks, Rumy.
Say, "Rainbow"!
-Rainbow!
[camera clicks]
It's amazing what a little water
can do with some sunlight.
[Teri]
Now Rumy can go to the waterfall
and see a rainbow anytime.
Time to close this case.
♪ Finding clues ♪
♪ We solved the case ♪
♪ Follow the facts ♪
♪ The case is now solved ♪
♪ We are detective Toby and Teri ♪
[together] The Case
of the Readymade Rainbow
is officially closed.